♪ I'm chasing silver and gold ♪
♪ a pawn the pound can hold ♪
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
♪ a pocket nickel-and-dime ♪
♪ fortune and fame, it's time ♪
♪ wait till the stars go blind ♪
♪ shot through the heart ♪
Mr. Hixton, is everything all right?
Mr. Hixton?
Kill me now.
You got the cell phone bill?
No. Uh, books from my publisher
for back cover quotes.
Wait. What about the cell phone bill?
Nothing.
Ah, more books to endorse.
You couldn't possibly read them all.
Don't have to.
"A Tour de Force in Terror. Richard Castle."
"Does for hot tubs
what 'Jaws' did for the ocean."
Gram, there's a letter for you.
Looks official.
"Bachman & Sabasto"?
Oh. Chet's estate lawyer.
They probably resolved the probate.
You okay?
This memory of him caught me by surprise.
Do you think he left you
anything in his will?
Well, he certainly didn't need to,
but if...
Oh, my.
Mother, what's wrong?
I...
$1 million?
Your mom must be in shock.
Any idea what she's gonna do with it?
If I'm lucky, get a place of her own.
Yeah, that would be lucky.
You can't buy much in Manhattan
for 1 million bucks.
Wow.
Foosball, basketball, a motorcycle...
I'll bet the owner of this place
clearly had ten times that.
Try a hundred.
Victim's name is Jay Hixton.
He won a cool $117 mil
in the Florida lottery last year.
And then he went
on a serious shopping spree.
Rookie mistake.
Sounds like the voice of experience.
Mm-hmm. Writing a best seller
in college is a lot like
winning the lottery.
I spent every penny of it in six months.
Good thing I'm not a one-hit wonder.
Single gunshot to the chest.
From the stippling and bruising,
I'd say there was a struggle,
the gun went off, vaporized his heart,
somewhere between 11:00
and 2:00 last night.
That's a big gun.
It's too big for that entry wound.
This isn't the murder weapon.
Told you she'd spot it first off.
Our victim was shot
with a 9-millimeter automatic.
The bullet went straight through him.
We pulled the slug out of the poker table.
Okay, so maybe our killer
forces Hixton to open the safe,
the .357 is hidden inside.
Hixton pulls it out, they struggle,
and he gets shot.
That's the winning ticket.
Hard to believe a little slip
of paper is worth over $100 mil.
What would you do
if you won that kind of money?
Easy. Buy a Ferrari.
I have one. Not as great as you would think.
Yeah, but they're hella fast.
Fast as every other car
in rush-hour traffic.
Any idea how much money was in here?
$100,000, secured in a bank bag.
Uh, this is Reginald Easley.
He's Mr. Hixton's servant.
Servant? Young man,
I am a traditional English butler.
I apprenticed at Buckingham Palace.
Did he always keep that much
hard cash in the safe?
Mr. Hixton came from
an impoverished background.
He found having hard currency
around reassuring.
How many people knew that it was there?
Dozens, no doubt.
He had a habit of buying
everything in sight,
no thought to how much money
he was flashing around
or how dangerous it was to tell people
that there was plenty more of it at home.
In New York, that's like
inviting someone back
to your house to kill you.
Did he keep that gun in the safe?
That's the odd thing, miss.
I know every item in this apartment.
I have never seen a gun.
Oh, but I do know
he kept a dye pack in the
bag that was stolen.
And how is it triggered?
It was on a 3-minute timer that began
when the bag left the apartment.
All right, grab some uniforms,
canvass the area.
The killer couldn't have gotten very far
before that pack exploded.
When was the last time you saw Hixton?
Yesterday evening.
He left about 5:00.
I believe he had made plans with his wife.
He was married?
Oh, yes, with a teenage daughter.
They'd been separated for some months
before I began to work for him.
Apparently, the money caused
some kind of a rift.
We were so happy then.
Trips to Paris and trips to Rome and...
Cars with heated seats and...
Then everyone started
looking at us different.
Like we were freaks.
You could see them thinking, why you?
Why not me?
And nothing we did was good enough.
So we moved here.
It was supposed to be a fresh start.
Why were the two of you separated?
That money, it was... just like poison.
Jay couldn't stop spending it,
and... and Nicole...
It's okay, mom.
Nicole got hooked on drugs.
And it was the wake-up call
we needed, really.
Jay and I went from not talking
to getting Nicole clean.
And then he started using
his money for good.
He found this soup kitchen on the Bowery
that was in dire straits.
He said that looking
at all those people in need
just reminded him, if...
if it wasn't for that lottery,
we'd be right there ourselves.
He started going there almost every day.
And it just reminded me of how much...
How much I love him.
Where was it the two of you ended up
going last night?
Last night?
His butler said that
the two of you had a date.
No. Jay called to cancel
at the last minute.
He told me something had happened,
something that we had
to deal with together.
And I tried to get him
to tell me what it was,
but he wouldn't.
And where did he call from?
The Bowery soup kitchen, I-I think.
It's where we were supposed to meet.
And did he have problems
with anyone there that you know of?
No one in particular.
It was a pretty rough crowd.
All my years as a mystery writer
point to one unequivocal killer.
The butler did it.
Oh.
Oh, come on. How many cases
have we actually had
where there's a-a butler
as a potential suspect?
It would be a crime if he didn't do it.
And then he shows up the next
morning and calls the cops?
Pretty clever, right?
Change? Speaking of clever,
I noticed at the crime scene,
you never mentioned what you
would do if you won the lottery.
No, I didn't.
Is that because it's embarrassing?
Ooh, scandalous?
I actually haven't really
thought about it, Castle.
So not embarrassing or scandalous,
just secretive.
Bad news travels fast.
The man was generous to a fault.
When he first started coming here,
he'd hand out $100 bills like...
like they were nothing.
Got so bad, I had to ask him to stop.
Why?
Well, we were attracting a bad element.
Still, I'd see Mr. Hixton sneak money
to a pregnant woman or homeless kid.
It was a compulsion for him,
like he had to give it away
'cause he didn't deserve it somehow.
Winner's guilt.
It's actually quite common
with lottery recipients.
Did anything suspicious
happen with Mr. Hixton
when he was here last night?
Now that you mention it, yeah.
A man was hanging around
a good part of the afternoon.
Someone you didn't know?
I'd never seen him before,
but he went right up to Mr. Hixton
when he arrived at 6:00,
like he knew him, you know?
A few minutes later,
he left and never came back.
Do you think you could describe
him to a sketch artist?
So our mystery man
goes to the soup kitchen, waits for Hixton,
and then takes him where?
He wasn't killed for another six hours.
And why wait?
I mean, if the guy wanted to rob Hixton,
why not just take him home
and empty his safe?
And then there's Hixton's gun.
Why did he need it and where did he get it?
Well, according to C.S.U., nowhere legal.
The serial numbers were filed off the gun,
and Hixton's prints were
on the bullets in the chamber,
which means he loaded it himself.
Found our lottery winner's money bag.
Where'd you find it?
Alley behind Hixton's building.
It was empty, but as you can see,
the dye pack in the bag went off.
And it must have gotten
on our killer's hands,
because we got prints
belonging to one Todd Shipley,
a maintenance worker in Hixton's building.
He got off right around
the time that Hixton was killed.
Yeah, but if he's a maintenance worker,
he could've picked up the bag
after the dye pack went off.
I don't think so.
Either that guy really likes "Avatar"...
Or he's our killer.
I swear. I found the bag on the ground,
and when I opened it,
it went off in my face.
That bag was on a 3-minute timer.
Are you telling us that you
accidentally picked it up at exactly
the the wrong time?
Man, I'm telling the truth.
I-I had just gotten off work,
stopped to get a soda,
when I saw someone running out
of the alley.
This, uh, someone that ran away,
what did they look like?
I-I don't know. It... it was dark.
So's your future, Todd,
if you don't start telling us the truth.
Man, I am.
Yo, ask Mr. Lee at the Korean grocery.
He... he... he's the one
that sold me the soda.
Timer was set for three minutes.
There's no way he could've
gotten downstairs from the 20th floor
and bought a drink before
the dye pack exploded.
All right, tell me this...
Did you see Hixton in the building
at all during your shift?
Yeah.
I was in the lobby when he came home,
around 11:00.
Uh, he was sweating
like he had been walking.
And since he left earlier
in his Escalade, I asked him
where his car was.
He said someone had taken it from him.
So Mr. Lee confirmed Shipley's alibi.
And Hixton's car is definitely missing.
Well, it can't be a coincidence
that on the same day Hixton's car
was taken, he was killed.
The killer could've gotten
Hixton's home key
when he took his ride.
Address was on the registration.
He liked the car so much,
he drove over to rob the apartment,
got caught in the act.
Yeah, but why would Hixton go home?
- Why wouldn't he call the police,
report the theft? - Okay.
Tracking company's got a lock
on Hixton's Escalade.
Looks like it's heading
west on Canal Street.
That's the Holland Tunnel.
Our killer's making a run for it.
Name's Shawn York.
Jersey police caught him
driving Hixton's car down the turnpike.
No sign of the stolen money, though.
No disrespect to our Jersey brethren,
but let's check that car again,
make sure that that money's
not hidden behind a door
panel or inside the wheel well.
You got it.
Hey, Ryan. What would you do
if you won the lottery?
Winery.
See? Everyone thinks about it.
Everybody thinks about what?
What they would do if they won the lottery.
A big-ass boat... 60-footer...
Monster spinnaker hanging off the bow,
two deep-sea rods
hanging off the stern. Mm.
Sweet. Okay, while you guys are fantasizing
about the size of your rods,
I'm gonna go and interrogate our suspect.
Can I get a...
Soda?
I'm not your flight attendant.
I'm a homicide detective.
Homicide?
You're a bit of a rambler, Shawn.
Assault in El Paso,
criminal trespass in Memphis,
and now first-degree murder
in New York City.
Wait. Time-out.
Who did I kill?
Jay Hixton.
No. He was alive when I saw him.
That was at the soup kitchen
where you jacked his car,
but then you got greedy and
you followed him to his apartment.
He ends up dead,
you end up 100 grand richer.
I didn't kill the guy.
And I sure as hell didn't steal his car.
Well, then how did you
end up driving his car?
He gave it to me.
He gave you a $70,000 car?
Why would he do that?
Look, I heard on the street,
Hixton believed in second chances,
so I tracked him down, told him
I was down on my luck.
And Hixton said that
he didn't have his checkbook,
but did I want his car?
I thought he was yanking my chain.
Who does that?
But, you know, he signed over the title
and handed me the keys.
He just signed over the title,
just like that?
Yes, ma'am.
Said he wasn't gonna need it anymore.
Where were you last night at midnight?
I went to the late movie near my apartment.
They're having a Tony JAA marathon.
Can I have that soda now?
Theater clerk confirms
selling York the ticket,
and Hixton's signature
on the car title is authentic.
Who gives away their car?
Someone who can afford
to buy a thousand new ones.
So at 6:00, Hixton gives York his car,
and then at 8:00,
he calls his wife and cancels dinner.
Told her that there's something
they need to talk about,
something that they both need
to deal with together.
Then he gets home at 11:00,
and about an hour later,
he's killed. So what was he
doing in the meantime
and with whom?
You know the guy did like to spend money?
If he made any charges
on his credit card last night,
it might give us a clue as to where he was.
If he spent any money
the night he was killed, it was cash.
There were no charges
on any of his 32 credit cards.
32 credit cards?
Yeah. One for every NFL team.
And that's just the tip of the iceberg.
He also bought a racehorse,
minority stake in a lingerie football team,
and a Bentley, which is currently
at the bottom of the Hudson River
because he drove it off
of a boat he was renting.
Wow. Sounds like that money
really turned Hixton
into a different person for a little while.
Yeah, money doesn't change who you are.
It just magnifies your personality.
Well, it wasn't all bad.
He also bought a house
for the clerk that sold him
the winning ticket,
a mausoleum for his dead neighbor,
and 3 acres on the moon.
Get outta town.
He's right down the crater from me.
Why doesn't it surprise me that you
have property on the moon?
You know what? Laugh it up.
When the earth is a desiccated husk,
you will be begging to
come live with me in the nectaris basin.
Hey.
So I searched the car.
Oh.
Yeah, sorry. York is not our guy.
That's okay. Jersey impound lot's
nice this time of year.
So no money, as expected, but I did find this.
A camera?
Lodged under the front seat.
Clearly it belongs to Hixton.
These are surveillance photos.
Yeah, a dozen of 'em,
date stamped last week.
Hixton was following this guy.
All right, contact the family and butler,
see if anyone recognizes him.
Meanwhile, we've got a hole
in our timeline that needs to be plugged.
So we know that Hixton
called his wife at 8:00 P.M.
And we know he wasn't at the soup kitchen.
- Let's ping the carrier, see if they know
where he was. - All right.
What?
Would you quit your job?
If you won the lottery,
would you quit being a cop?
Well, what else would I do?
Super model, brain surgeon,
American gladiator.
Oh, you got me there, Castle.
I've always wanted to leave the force
and become an American gladiator.
Why don't you want to tell me?
Because there's nothing really to tell.
Come on. You must have a dream.
Sure I do.
Solve this case, go home,
take a nice long bath.
But it doesn't look like that's
going to happen tonight.
Hixton's phone carrier.
Hey, Esposito.
That phone call to Hixton's wife
came from the 500 block of Lexington.
I don't think we can get
a more exact address,
so we're gonna have to canvass.
Well, maybe not.
I-I just saw Lexington Avenue
in his financials.
Yeah. Right here.
He wrote 2 checks last month, $10,000 each,
to a company called Meech Industries.
Meech? Logan Meech?
Yeah, he's listed here as the owner.
You know him?
Yeah, I must have arrested the guy,
like, half a dozen times.
He's a low-rent scam artist
with a history of violence.
Last time I busted him,
he was trying to grill cheese
a guy in a dry cleaning press.
Why would Hixton
be writing checks to a character like that?
Logan Meech.
Detective.
I love what you've done with your...
Sit down.
Hey.
Who's the new guy?
Why, you want to send him
Christmas cards from death row?
What? Wait. I didn't kill anybody.
So it's just a coincidence
that you were with Jay Hixton
shortly before he was shot
to death in his apartment?
What? Hixton's dead?
Uh, he was one of my investors.
Really?
What is it Mr. Hixton was investing in?
My relief organization.
Why is it I'm thinking,
the only relief Mr. Hixton's money provided
was to your own bank account?
Did Hixton get on to your scamming him?
Did he threaten to go to the cops?
Is that why you killed him?
I told you, I didn't kill him.
I-I hadn't seen him in weeks.
That's funny,
because I talked to your landlord,
and he said that
he remembers clearly seeing
Hixton at your place last night.
So either you start telling us
the truth and playing ball,
or I call the D.A. and get them
to draw up murder charges.
Okay, look, hang on a minute now.
Um, maybe, I, uh, I misspoke, okay?
Um...
Hixton did actually pay
me a visit last night.
Why?
He wanted a gun.
For what?
Uh, protection. He was scared.
He paid me a grand for a-a .357
that I was holding for a friend.
What was he scared of?
His past.
He said it was coming back to get him.
What's that mean, his past was
coming back to get him?
And why go to Meech for a gun?
Why not just go to the
police or hire a bodyguard?
Maybe he didn't think
they could protect him.
C.S.U. finished processing
Hixton's apartment, came across
two sets of fingerprints
that were in the system.
Couple of career criminals from
Hixton's hometown in Florida.
Greg and Ty Page.
Previous busts for bank robbery
and currently serving a
nickel for grand larceny.
Yeah, well, that info's
a little bit behind.
They were released last week
due to overcrowding.
Yeah, get to the part about
who they robbed.
Hixton.
A month after he collected his jackpot.
Even though they wore ski masks,
he recognized them by their voices
because they grew up together.
It was his testimony that put them away.
Hixton must have heard
they were being released
and worried they were
coming after him again.
According to Florida Police,
the brothers were in town
for all of two days
before the packed up their car
and headed up north.
Told a neighbor that they were
going hunting.
Looks like they bagged themselves
a lottery winner.
Whoa!
Looks like you made a serious dent
in your surprise inheritance.
Is it safe to say there is
not an animal print left
in any store in New York City?
Very funny.
Probably true.
Well, congratulations.
Looks like you have successfully
completed the first stage
in the five stages of hitting
the jackpot...shopping.
What's the next stage?
Well, if you were my
lottery-winning victim,
you'd turn to charity,
and then get shot to death
in your living room.
I'll pass.
Besides, I've decided
to give back the money.
What? Why?
Richard, I was about to
break up with the man.
Do you really think he
would've left me that money
if he'd know that?
No, no. I'm gonna return all this stuff.
I'm gonna give back the money.
It's the right thing to do.
Well, you've just jumped to stage five.
Enlightenment.
Then again, Chet did adore me,
so I think I should be
able to keep one thing.
It's not real.
Ah, detective Beckett.
Did you call to tell me a bedtime story?
Which car is theirs?
The maroon one over there.
Florida plates.
It's registered to a Greg Page.
We put an alert on their plate number,
which got triggered when a
traffic cop ticketed them
about an hour ago.
Any idea where they are?
None.
So we watch the car until someone shows up.
Any sign yet?
That's a negative.
A winery, huh?
Jenny and I visited one on
our first vacation together.
$100 mil, and you're gonna become a farmer?
The fiancée really has done
some damage on you, bro.
Like Lanie hasn't changed you?
Lanie?
Come on, dude.
We... we all know about the two of you.
Castle and Beckett know, too?
You said earlier that
money doesn't change us,
it just magnifies who we are.
W-what did your windfall magnify in you?
My inner child... at first.
Kind of like Hixton.
The one who likes, you know,
private jets, five-star everything.
But then I realized,
the only luxury I truly
care about is freedom.
You know, freedom to write,
to spend time with Alexis.
Having that money just...
Allows me to live life on my terms.
You grew up.
Well, I wouldn't go that far.
That property on the moon?
Mm-hmm.
I just bought that last month.
And who is this guy?
Yo, dreadlocks, 12:00.
NYPD, let me see your hands.
Page brothers, where are they?
Upstairs.
What the hell, yo?
That was slammin'.
Three armed cops and a writer makes four,
you're under arrest, so get on the floor.
Got about 60 grand here.
Where's the other $40,000
you took from Hixton's safe
when you killed him?
You spend it on your rap career?
Nah, you got it all wrong, shorty.
We didn't kill the man.
We came up here to help him.
Got out the joint for good behavior.
Dude called us up, said he needed a savoir.
Stop rapping.
I'll buy the album.
Savior?
Yeah. His daughter got back into the drugs.
He needed to make things right,
so he called us.
The two of you robbed Hixton
at gunpoint in Florida.
Why would he call you?
When Hixton realized
what kind of trouble Nicole was in,
he knew we were the only people
he could turn to.
And what could you possibly do
to help his daughter
with her addiction?
Problem wasn't the drugs.
It was her dealer.
A cat named Oz.
Nicole was under his spell
somethin' fierce.
And when Hixton found out about it,
he went to go see Oz,
told the man, "stay away from my daughter."
When Oz didn't, he called us.
You don't believe me, look in my wallet.
Looks like Nicole lied to me
when she told me she didn't recognize him.
It's the guy Hixton had under surveillance.
Is this Oz?
Yep. When Hixton called us,
we drove right up here.
Jumped Oz outside this club downtown.
Yo, Ty hit his bodyguard with a pipe.
I stuffed Oz in the trunk,
drove under the bridge,
and beat on his ass.
Then we came straight here,
been bouncin' tunes ever since.
Is that true?
Did they come here last night?
Yeah, we told the man,
"Best stay away from Nicole
or we gon' put your ass in the river."
He told us we should do it,
cause if we let him live
he was gonna burn us alive.
You wanna know who killed Hixton?
Gotta be Oz.
So Hixton gets a gun
to protect himself from Oz.
He can't go to the cops
'cause that'll get his daughter in trouble.
What the hell was that?
Ryan, watch them.
Stay right where you are.
Well, looks like Oz wasn't kidding
when he said he'd burn 'em alive.
Is it true, Nicole?
Did you start using again?
After I got clean, Oz found me.
He said he wanted me back.
Nicole.
I'm sorry, mom.
I'm so sorry.
And your father knew?
He blamed himself.
He said that he was gonna fix it all,
but I never thought...
This Oz... You think he's capable
of killing your dad?
This is all my fault.
Dad is dead because of me.
It's okay.
Oz... A.K.A. Marvin Osminkowski.
No wonder he changed his name.
According to Vice, he has a lucrative gig
peddling high-end product
to the city's rich and famous,
and a car bomb is definitely his M.O.
A competing dealer
got blown up last year,
but they didn't have enough evidence
to convict.
So Oz shoots Hixton
for ordering the beatdown,
and then attempts to barbecue
the Page brothers
to complete his revenge.
All right. Let's go pick up Oz.
Yeah, well, that's gonna be difficult.
According to Vice,
Oz pretty much operates off grid.
The only time he's on
is when he's dealing
out of word-of-mouth nightclubs,
and even there, he's got
a network of bouncers, waiters,
and patrons as lookouts.
Oz catches one whiff of bacon,
and he vanishes into thin air.
There's gotta be some way
to slip under the radar.
What?
I think we're gonna need your Ferrari.
Mother.
Oh, my. Look at you.
Oh, you look gorgeous.
I'm just gonna grab my keys and change.
You two going out on a date?
Oh, no.
We're just doing a little undercover work.
So how are you doing?
I've been better.
Castle told me that you decided
to give the money back.
Yeah, well, I tried.
Chet's kids refused to take it.
They said, their father loved me,
he wanted me to have the money.
So I'm...
You know, trying to figure out
what to do with it.
Everything I come up with seems so...
Selfish and petty.
Oh, well, it doesn't have to be that way.
You know, someone once told me that
money doesn't change you,
it just magnifies who you are.
You cared about Chet.
Maybe you could do something
that would honor his memory somehow.
That is a lovely thought.
Thank you. Really, thank you.
All right. Got the keys.
Oh, great.
I'm driving.
You're driving?
Beckett, this is... this is a Ferrari.
It is a high-performance vehicle,
designed to respond instantaneously
to your every whim,
your every movement, every...
Nice car.
Get us some drinks and
keep your eyes peeled for Oz, okay?
Okay.
Drinks. Got it.
Ah, come on. Please.
You gotta let me go in and see him.
Hey.
Hey yourself.
I haven't seen you around here before.
Oh, that's because I just came into town.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
From where?
Ibiza.
Mm. So a little birdie
told me all about you.
- Yeah? - Yeah. Said that you know
how to keep a party going
all night long.
Little birdie got a name?
Of course.
Are you gonna tell me what it is?
No.
Yeah, I'm coming.
That your boyfriend?
For now.
I like you.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Well, prove it.
What kind of party you lookin' to get into?
Um... I like to feel shiny.
Shiny, huh?
Yeah.
I think I got something to fit that bill.
But it's gonna cost you.
That's okay. Good things always do.
Aah!
Hey!
Ooh.
No. Handcuffs.
Right.
You sure took a big step down
in the wardrobe department.
You're about to take and
even bigger step down...
Into a prison jumpsuit.
We got you dead to rights
on possession with the intent to sell.
That's 20 years federal time.
But that's nothing compared to
the time that you're gonna do
for first-degree murder.
Not to mention felony blowing crap up.
I don't know what you're talking about.
You remember this guy?
You should. You killed him.
And these two you tried
to kill with a car bomb.
Look... I had to get
those country boys back.
But I didn't have anything
to do with Hixton. I swear.
Here's a thing, Marvin...
We showed your picture
around Hixton's place.
Oddly enough, people saw you there
right about the time he was killed.
Page brothers gave you a serious beating,
you vowed revenge,
and then Hixton shows up dead
with witnesses claiming
to see you at the crime scene?
That doesn't look good for you, Marvin,
and lying to us will only make it worse.
Okay.
Maybe... I had hard feelings
about my medical condition,
and maybe I paid Hixton a visit
to discuss them.
But I abandoned ship
before I got to his door.
You were hot to straighten Hixton out,
and you changed your mind?
Do you really expect us to believe that?
It's the truth.
I took the elevator up to Hixton's place,
when the doors opened,
there was a guy standing right there.
He got a good look at me.
If I would've gone though with my visit,
he woulda pointed me out in a lineup, easy.
So I walked away.
You get a good look at this guy?
Yeah. Rode back down
to the first floor with him.
He was maybe 50,
proper looking,
wearing an old-school tuxedo.
The butler really did do it.
Easley the butler...
Loyal, devoted,
seemingly distraught
over the death of his master.
Yet all the while, lurking behind that mask
of servile correctness...
Was a killer.
Or Oz is just trying to kick up some dust.
I mean, what's the butler's motive?
Well, in fiction, it would be
one of two things.
Firstly, he was carrying on a torrid affair
with his master's wife.
No. Ew.
Second, had to be the money.
I think Castle might be on to something.
I dug a little deeper into Reginald Easley,
and his last few employers
all say the same thing...
Easley resigned after
some of their valuables went missing.
I realized, I've been thinking
about this all wrong.
You're not a frivolous person,
so you wouldn't do frivolous things
with your lottery winnings.
Castle.
No, no. I'm gonna figure this out.
If you...
Packing your things?
These aren't my things.
They belong to my employer.
Must be hard, being around all this wealth,
none of it yours.
I'm content with my lot.
Really?
We read up on you.
Born in Leeds to a single mother
who was a seamstress.
With the right training,
you lost the lowbrow accent
and learned to fit in with the gentry,
where you saw people spend more in one day
than your mother made in an entire year.
Then along comes Hixton,
a man with an upbringing
not unlike your own.
But he owned all this, and he owned you,
and not because of any special talent
or intelligence.
Just because he guessed six numbers,
and you didn't.
And taking from Hixton
wasn't really stealing.
It was just correcting a karmic injustice.
You made him open that safe,
but what you didn't know
was that he had a gun,
and when he reached for it,
this is where it ended.
What on earth makes you think that?
We know that you were here
the night that he was killed, Mr. Easley,
long after you said that you had left.
Early on, he bought
25 first edition Dickens...
Charles Dickens...
and the man didn't even read.
He just liked the look of the leather
on their spines.
Mr. Easley...
I stole two of them.
To me, it was like levying a tax
on him for being an idiot.
But then I had a change of heart.
I brought them back here that night,
around 11:00,
thinking he was out with his wife.
But for some reason he was here.
I-I heard the shower running.
Your excuse for coming back here
the night that he was killed
was that you had a change of heart?
Yes.
I'd like to say it was because
his turn to philanthropy
made me see him in a different light,
as a good man one shouldn't steal from.
But the truth is, I was scared
his bad luck would become mine.
He won over $100 million in the lottery.
One could hardly consider that bad luck.
Mm. His marriage failed,
his daughter fell into drugs,
and he was just gunned down
in his own apartment.
That, sir, is the universe...
What did you call it?
Oh, yes, "correcting a karmic injustice."
What do you mean?
The winning lottery ticket.
Hixton let it slip one night
after a little too much time
with the bottle.
He always played the same numbers...
The dates he and his wife
met and were married...
01-03-95 and 10-24-98.
None of those numbers are on the ticket.
All the misery that came from the money?
Hixton believed it was because
he stole the ticket.
So you think Hixton was murdered
because he stole the ticket?
No. Yes.
Come on. You... I mean,
it was worth a fortune.
Easley had every reason
to make up that story,
and even if those weren't
Hixton's regular numbers,
it still doesn't prove
that he stole the ticket.
But the theft explains
so much about Hixton's behavior.
The director of the soup kitchen
said that Hixton compulsively
gave away his money,
like he felt he didn't deserve it.
I called it winner's guilt.
But what if it was another kind
of guilt entirely?
Okay, fine. Let's say that you're right.
Let's say that Hixton stole the ticket.
There's still no evidence suggesting the
that contributed to his death.
You're the first person to tell me
that there are no coincidences
in a murder investigation.
Hold on, detective.
He's got a point.
You said Hixton told Meech
his past was coming back to get him.
Now we thought he meant the Page brothers.
But this ticket represents
the biggest thing
that ever happened to him.
I call that a major motive for murder.
Okay, fine. Then if it's true,
how do we prove it?
The numbers.
2, 4, 8...
19, 41, and 79.
I know it's a long shot,
but if we can figure out
what these numbers signify,
we might be able to find
the ticket's real owner.
I play my kids' birthdays.
I play my firsts... sex and combat.
I play his firsts, too.
What?
That way, we both win,
and it's not awkward.
Beckett?
Uh, sorry. I don't play, Castle.
But if you did?
Well, it doesn't really matter, Castle.
I mean, the fact is,
Hixton won the lottery a year ago.
If he stole that ticket,
why didn't the rightful owner
come forward sooner?
Maybe the rightful owner is dead.
Maybe Hixton killed him.
The moon.
The weird purchases Hixton made.
As soon as he won,
he bought 3 acres on the moon
and a mausoleum for his neighbor.
- Find out everything we can
on this neighbor. - I'm on it.
If you're right, Castle,
I'm betting Hixton's neighbor
never imagined
that the luckiest day of his life
would also be his last.
Boo-yah!
Neighbor's name was Hank Walters.
He died the day the winning numbers
were announced.
Walters' birthday... 2/8/41...
Three of the numbers in the lottery ticket.
Two days later,
Hixton came forward
to claim his $117 million check.
What did Walters die of?
Natural causes.
For real?
Yeah. He was an old man dying of,
like, six different things.
Lanie went over the autopsy,
said everything looked like
it was on the up-and-up.
So Walters is bedridden.
Hixton, like any good neighbor,
asks the old man
if there's anything he can do for him.
Walters says,
"Yes, buy me a lottery ticket."
Maybe it was a onetime thing.
Maybe he did it all the time.
This time, the numbers are announced,
and Walters won.
Hixton rushes back to tell him
and finds Walters dead.
And doesn't know what to do.
That's why it took him
an extra day to come forward.
He was struggling
with the moral implications.
Yeah, but desperate times
call for desperate measures.
He claimed the ticket as his own.
Clearly no one else knew about it.
What about family?
Did Walters have any?
Well...
According to county records,
the only living relative
of Hank Walters is a nephew named Tom,
and guess where he lives.
New York City.
I'm sorry.
Are you telling me
that I might inherit $100 million?
Come on, Tom.
You already figured that out.
You confronted Hixton.
You told him you wanted restitution.
He said no. Things got ugly.
And Hixton ended up dead.
So you grabbed what was in the safe
and you took off.
What?
Knock it off, Tom.
You're the old man's only living relative.
You're the only one
with motive for revenge.
No, I'm not his only relative.
He's got a son.
No, he doesn't. We checked.
Well, sure.
He's not biological.
Hank dated his mom for, like, five years
while the kid was growing up.
The two bonded like crazy.
Kept in touch even after
the romance broke up.
They even spent every holiday together
for the last ten years.
This son, is his birthday 4/19/79?
Uh, yeah. How'd you know?
Because those are
the three remaining numbers
in the winning lottery ticket.
You lied to us about who you are, Shawn.
These are your dad's numbers...
Your birthday and his.
I don't know what you're talking about.
When did you realize that Hixton had stolen
the winning ticket?
Was it when you were still
in prison in Memphis?
Or was it after you got out,
went to go and visit your dad,
found out he was dead
and that his mausoleum was paid
for with his stolen winnings?
I can't imagine how you must have felt,
how driven you were to come to New York,
make things right.
You tracked down Hixton
at the soup kitchen,
threatened him with all kinds of things
if he didn't do right by you.
He freaked out. He gave you his car.
But that wasn't enough, was it?
You can't prove any of this.
I can prove all of it, Shawn.
We found the money from Hixton's safe
in your apartment
with trace amounts of his blood in it.
So what happened next?
I mean, why would you walk away
with only 100 grand?
He owed you millions.
Hmm.
I went to his apartment
to collect what was mine.
He told me...
I didn't deserve the money.
He said that I was a dirtbag criminal,
and all I was gonna do if he gave it to me
was put it up my nose.
Instead, he was gonna give it all away...
To those in need.
I told him, I was in need.
Then he grabbed for my gun.
It went off.
So what's gonna happen with all that money?
Well, that's for the lawyers to decide.
The good thing is that Nicole
is going back into rehab,
and her mom's gonna be there for her
when she gets out.
- Well, at least something good
will come of all this. - Mm-hmm.
That is it for me. I am beat.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Wait. You giving up?
No more questions about
my innermost jackpot dreams?
You said you didn't have any.
Good night, Castle.
Good night.
Good evening, ladies.
Hi.
Are you buying property?
Gram decided what to do
with her inheritance.
I think it's perfect.
Really, what?
I'm going to open
the Martha Rodgers School of Acting.
Oh. I-I thought
you were gonna do something to honor Chet?
Well, I am.
Oh, no.
Chet was always encouraging me
to use my enormous talent to help people.
Then wouldn't you call it
the Chet Palaburn School of Acting
given its auspices?
Well, it's customary that
when you're opening a school,
you use a great teacher's name,
like, um, Strasberg,
Meisner, Adler, and now Rodgers.
Oh, I am, however, going to commission
a portrait to be done of Chet
that will hang in the lobby
so his legacy will last forever.
Nice.
Mm.
Legacy.
What?
Hmm?
I know what Beckett would do.
Castle.
I know what you would do
if you won the lottery.
By all means, please come in.
So what is your big insight
into a financial decision
that I will never have to make?
You would use the money
to honor your mother's legacy.
On the way over here,
I called the dean
of your mom's old law school.
We talked about starting a scholarship
in Johanna Beckett's name.
One that would provide
a full ride for a student
planning on dedicating their career
to those in the legal system
without a voice.
The kind of people your mom championed.
And with your blessing,
I would like to host
a fund-raiser to fund it.
You just can't stay
out of my personal life, can you?
Thank you. That's really sweet.
We definitely have to invite the mayor
and all of his campaign contributors.
Some of 'em can be boorish.
They got this one guy...
Bill Rowe. He's so rich, he has...
Sync by YYeTs.net
Corrected by Addic7ed.com
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org